So Java provides an MXBean for the garbage collector, and this bean lets us
get the names of the garbage collectors that are currently active, the numbers
of collections that those collectors have made,
the times of collections, and also some information about
the memory pools those collectors manage.
Java supports various management mechanisms known as
the management beans. And indeed,
there's a garbage collection management bean that we can use to monitor garbage
collection. It doesn't give us a huge amount of information,
but it can be useful inside an application.
To use this, we need to grab references to the memory management MXBeans that
are available within the VM, and this one per memory manager.
So typically, we have two memory managers, one for old,
one from new, and we get one bean for each of those memory managers.
The way we get references to those beans is something like this.
We call ManagementFactory.getGarbageCollectorMXBeans,
and this gives us back a list of beans.
And then from this list,
we can iterate over the list. So we can say something like for
GarbageCollectorMXBean bean in list and then iterate for each bean inside this
list. And then we can print out some information for each bean.
So, for example, each bean has a name, so we can print that name.
We can also print information about the number of
collections this bean has done.
So there's a CollectionCount and a CollectionTime, so we can print that
information out. And then each bean is responsible for a number of
memory management pools. So this will be things like the young
generation pool and the old generation pool.
We can get information about each of those pools from the bean itself.
So we can print out the pool names, for String name in
bean.getMemoryPoolNames. And then inside here,
we can simply print out the name of the pool. And at the
end, we'll just print a new line to allow us to format the
screen slightly more cleanly.
Now if we run this, we're not going to see any collections.
We're not going see any collection time.
This is just to give you an idea of how these beans work and
how you can use them within the application.
So here we're running with the default garbage collector
and not pass any the flags to this.
So we see,
we have two beans, one with the name of Copy, one with the name of
MarkSweepCompact. The first bean has information about the young
generation collector, and the second bean has information about the
old generation collector.
And we can see the young generation has the Eden space and survivor
space, and the old generation has the Eden space, survivor space, and
also the tenure generation, so the old generation.
So what about running this with a different garbage collector?
So here, I provided the current mark sweep garbage collector as an option.
And if we run this code, we'll find we end up with different garbage
collectors for the application. We're running with a parallel
collector for the young space here, and then we have the concurrent
mark sweep collector for the old space.
And you can try this application, passing in different parameters for the
garbage collectors and see how those parameters affect the garbage collector that gets used for your application.